# Event Booking REST API Project
_______________________________________________________________________________
### About

A web server that serves data (usually in JSON format) by any client that
needs to use that data.

This will serve and store data.

_______________________________________________________________________________
### End Points

CRUD

#### Create
POST, /events -> Create a new event that people can sign up for. `Authentication Required`
POST, /events/<id> -> Register for specific event by its id `Authentication Required`
POST, /signup -> Create a new user
POST, /login -> Login to a specific user account `User authentication via JWT (JSON Web Tokens)`

When a user logs in, we send back a string that is generated by the server,
in a way that the server can verify if the token is valid. 
Then this token will be used when an request is made to an endpoint 
that requires authentication.

#### READ
GET, /events -> Get a list of events available
GET, /events/<id> -> Get a specific event by its id

#### Update
PUT, /events/<id> -> Update the details of an event `Authentication Required` `Only creator`

#### Delete
DELETE, /events/<id> -> Delete a specific evente by its id `Authentication Required`
DELETE, /events/<id>/register -> Cancel your registration for a specific event `Authentication Required` `Only creator`
by its id

_______________________________________________________________________________
### Third Party Packages

A web framework written in Go
```sh
go get github.com/gin-gonic/gin
```
_______________________________________________________________________________
### Reproducabilty

#### go.mod

Tracks which modules your project depends on and their versions.

Ensures that anyone else who clones your repo can install the exact same 
dependencies with:

```sh
go mod tidy
go build
```

#### go.sum

Contains cryptographic checksums for every module version listed in go.mod.

Verifies that the modules haven’t been tampered with.

Also ensures reproducible builds.

_______________________________________________________________________________
### Using HTTPie (API testing client)

Sending a GET request with HTTPie
```sh
http GET http://localhost:8080/events
```

Alternatively, you can just open that url in the browser.


Sending a POST request with HTTPie
```sh
http POST http://127.0.0.1:8080/events \
Name="Conference" \
Description="Annual tech conference" \
Location="Cape Town" \
DateTime="2025-10-10T09:00:00Z" \
UserID:=1
```

_______________________________________________________________________________
